### Reuse this work freely
All visualizations, data, and code produced by Our World in Data are
completely open access under the [Creative Commons BY
license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). You have the
permission to use, distribute, and reproduce these in any medium, provided the
source and authors are credited.

The data produced by third parties and made available by Our World in Data is
subject to the license terms from the original third-party authors. We will
always indicate the original source of the data in our documentation, so you
should always check the license of any such third-party data before use and
redistribution.

All of [our charts can be embedded](/how-to-use-our-world-in-data#how-to-
embed-interactive-charts-in-your-article) in any site.

  * [Wordpress](https://owid.cloud/wp/wp-admin)
  * [Edit Page](https://owid.cloud/wp/wp-admin/post.php?post=54759&action=edit)

Our World in Data is free and accessible for everyone.

Help us do this work by making a donation.

[Donate now](/donate)

  * [About](/about)
  * [Contact](/about#contact)
  * [Feedback](/feedback)
  * [Jobs](/jobs)
  * [Funding](/funding)
  * [How to use](/about/how-to-use-our-world-in-data)
  * [Donate](/donate)
  * [Privacy policy](/privacy-policy)

  * [Latest work](/blog)
  * [All charts](/charts)

  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/OurWorldInData)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OurWorldinData)
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ourworldindata/)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/owid)
  * [RSS Feed](/feed)

[![Oxford Martin School logo](https://ourworldindata.org/oms-
logo.svg)](https://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/global-development)[![Y
Combinator logo](https://ourworldindata.org/yc-logo.png)](/owid-at-
ycombinator)

Licenses: All visualizations, data, and articles produced by Our World in Data
are open access under the [Creative Commons BY
license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). You have permission to
use, distribute, and reproduce these in any medium, provided the source and
authors are credited. All the software and code that we write is open source
and made available via GitHub under the permissive [MIT
license](https://github.com/owid/owid-grapher/blob/master/LICENSE.md ). All
other material, including data produced by third parties and made available by
Our World in Data, is subject to the license terms from the original third-
party authors.

Please consult our full [legal disclaimer](/about#legal).

[![Global Change Data Lab logo](https://ourworldindata.org/gcdl-
logo.svg)](https://global-change-data-lab.org/)Our World In Data is a project
of the [Global Change Data Lab](https://global-change-data-lab.org/), a
registered charity in England and Wales (Charity Number 1186433).

