#### How can we make sure that the development of AI goes well?
Making sure that the development of artificial intelligence goes well is not
just one of the most crucial questions of our time, but likely one of the most
crucial questions in human history. This needs public resources – public
funding, public attention, and public engagement.

Currently, almost all resources that are dedicated to AI aim to speed up the
development of this technology. Efforts that aim to increase the safety of AI
systems, on the other hand, do not receive the resources they need. Researcher
Toby Ord estimated that in 2020 between $10 to $50 million was spent on work
to address the alignment problem.18 Corporate AI investment in the same year
was more than 2000-times larger, it [summed
up](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/corporate-investment-in-artificial-
intelligence-total?country=~OWID_WRL) to $125 billion.

This is not only the case for the AI alignment problem. The work on the entire
range of negative social consequences from AI is under-resourced compared to
the large investments to increase the power and use of AI systems.

It is frustrating and concerning for society as a whole that AI safety work is
extremely neglected and that little public funding is dedicated to this
crucial field of research. On the other hand, for each _individual_ person
this neglect means that they have a good chance to actually make a positive
difference, if they dedicate themselves to this problem now. And while the
field of AI safety is small, it does provide [good
resources](https://80000hours.org/problem-profiles/artificial-
intelligence/#what-can-you-do-concretely-to-help) on what you can do
concretely if you want to work on this problem.

I hope that more people dedicate their individual careers to this cause, but
it needs more than individual efforts. A technology that is transforming our
society needs to be a central interest of all of us. As a society we have to
think more about the societal impact of AI, become knowledgeable about the
technology, and understand what is at stake.

When our children look back at today, I imagine that they will find it
difficult to understand how little attention and resources we dedicated to the
development of safe AI. I hope that this changes in the coming years, and that
we begin to dedicate more resources to making sure that powerful AI gets
developed in a way that benefits us and the next generations.

If we fail to develop this broad-based understanding, then it will remain the
small elite that finances and builds this technology that will determine how
one of the – or plausibly _the_ – most powerful technology in human history
will transform our world.

* * *

With our work at Our World in Data we want to do our small part to enable a
better informed public conversation on AI and the future we want to live in.
You can find these resources on [OurWorldinData.org/artificial-
intelligence](https://ourworldindata.org/artificial-intelligence)

 **Acknowledgements:** I would like to thank my colleagues Daniel Bachler,
Charlie Giattino, and Edouard Mathieu for their helpful comments to drafts of
this essay.

Our World in Data presents the data and research to make progress against the
world’s largest problems.  
This article draws on data and research discussed in our entry on
**[Artificial Intelligence](https://ourworldindata.org/artificial-
intelligence)**.