Title-Abstract
[Our World  
in Data](/)

[Articles  
**by topic**](/#entries)

  * [Latest](/blog)
  * [About](/about)
  * [Donate](/donate)

  * [All charts](/charts)
  * [Sustainable Development Goals Tracker](https://sdg-tracker.org)

[![Oxford Martin School logo](https://ourworldindata.org/oms-
logo.svg)](https://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/global-development)[![Global
Change Data Lab logo](https://ourworldindata.org/gcdl-
logo.svg)](https://global-change-data-lab.org/)

 **COVID-19 vaccinations, cases, excess mortality, and much more**

[Explore our COVID-19 data](/coronavirus#explore-the-global-situation)

# Artificial intelligence is transforming our world — it is on all of us to
make sure that it goes well

How AI gets built is currently decided by a small group of technologists. As
this technology is transforming our lives, it should be in all of our interest
to become informed and engaged.

[by Max Roser](/team)

December 15, 2022

Why should you care about the development of artificial intelligence?

Think about what the alternative would look like. If you and the wider public
do not get informed and engaged, then we leave it to a few entrepreneurs and
engineers to decide how this technology will transform our world.

That is the status quo. This small number of people at a few tech firms
directly working on artificial intelligence (AI) do understand how
extraordinarily powerful this technology is
[becoming](https://ourworldindata.org/brief-history-of-AI). If the rest of
society does not become engaged, then it will be this small elite who decides
how this technology will change our lives.

To change this status quo, I want to answer three questions in this article:
Why is it hard to take the prospect of a world transformed by AI seriously?
How can we imagine such a world? And what is at stake as this technology
becomes more powerful?

#### Why is it hard to take the prospect of a world transformed by artificial
intelligence seriously?

In some way, it should be obvious how technology can fundamentally transform
the world. We just have to look at how much the world has already changed. If
you could invite a family of hunter-gatherers from 20,000 years ago on your
next flight, they would be pretty surprised. Technology has changed our world
already, so we should expect that it can happen again.

But while we have seen the world transform before, we have seen these
transformations play out over the course of generations. What is different now
is how very rapid these technological changes have become. In the past, the
technologies that our ancestors used in their childhood were still central to
their lives in their old age. This has not been the case anymore for recent
generations. Instead, it has [become
common](https://ourworldindata.org/technology-long-run) that technologies
unimaginable in one’s youth become ordinary in later life.

This is the first reason we might not take the prospect seriously: it is easy
to underestimate the speed at which technology can change the world.

The second reason why it is difficult to take the possibility of
transformative AI – potentially even AI as intelligent as humans – seriously
is that it is an idea that we first heard in the cinema. It is not surprising
that for many of us, the first reaction to a scenario in which machines have
human-like capabilities is the same as if you had asked us to take seriously a
future in which vampires, werewolves, or zombies roam the planet.1

But, it is plausible that it is both the stuff of sci-fi fantasy _and_ the
central invention that could arrive in our, or our children’s, lifetimes.

The third reason why it is difficult to take this prospect seriously is by
failing to see that powerful AI could lead to very large changes. This is also
understandable. It is difficult to form an idea of a future that is very
different from our own time. There are two concepts that I find helpful in
imagining a very different future with artificial intelligence. Let’s look at
both of them.

#### How to develop an idea of what the future of artificial intelligence
might look like?

When thinking about the future of artificial intelligence, I find it helpful
to consider two different concepts in particular: human-level AI, and
transformative AI.2 The first concept highlights the AI’s capabilities and
anchors them to a familiar benchmark, while transformative AI emphasizes the
impact that this technology would have on the world.

From where we are today, much of this may sound like science fiction. It is
therefore worth keeping in mind that the majority of surveyed AI experts
[believe](https://ourworldindata.org/ai-timelines) there is a real chance that
human-level artificial intelligence will be developed within the next decades,
and some believe that it will exist much sooner.

##### The advantages and disadvantages of comparing machine and human
intelligence

One way to think about human-level artificial intelligence is to contrast it
with the current state of AI technology. While today’s AI systems often have
capabilities similar to a particular, limited part of the human mind, a human-
level AI would be a machine that is capable of carrying out the same _range_
of intellectual tasks that we humans are capable of.3 It is a machine that
would be “able to learn to do anything that a human can do,” as Norvig and
Russell put it in their textbook on AI.4

Taken together, the range of abilities that characterize intelligence gives
humans the ability to solve problems and achieve a wide variety of goals. A
human-level AI would therefore be a system that could solve all those problems
that we humans can solve, and do the tasks that humans do today. Such a
machine, or collective of machines, would be able to do the work of a
translator, an accountant, an illustrator, a teacher, a therapist, a truck
driver, or the work of a trader on the world’s financial markets. Like us, it
would also be able to do research and science, and to develop new technologies
based on that.

The concept of human-level AI has some clear advantages. Using the familiarity
of our own intelligence as a reference provides us with some clear guidance on
how to imagine the capabilities of this technology.

However, it also has clear disadvantages. Anchoring the imagination of future
AI systems to the familiar reality of human intelligence carries the risk that
it obscures the very real differences between them.

Some of these differences are obvious. For example, AI systems will have the
immense memory of computer systems, against which our own capacity to store
information pales. Another obvious difference is the speed at which a machine
can absorb and process information. But information storage and processing
speed are not the only differences. The domains in which machines already
outperform humans is steadily increasing: in chess, after matching the level
of the best human players in the late 90s, AI systems
[reached](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/computer-chess-ability)
superhuman levels more than a decade ago. In other games like Go or complex
strategy games, this has happened more recently.5

These differences mean that an AI that is at least as good as humans in every
domain would overall be much more powerful than the human mind. Even the first
“human-level AI” would therefore be quite superhuman in many ways.6

Human intelligence is also a bad metaphor for machine intelligence in other
ways. The way we think is often very different from machines, and as a
consequence the output of thinking machines can be very alien to us.

Most perplexing and most concerning are the strange and unexpected ways in
which machine intelligence can fail. The AI-generated image of the horse below
provides an example: on the one hand, AIs can do what no human can do –
produce an image of anything, in any style (here photorealistic), in mere
seconds – but on the other hand it can fail in ways that no human would fail.7
No human would make the mistake of drawing a horse with five legs.8

Imagining a powerful future AI as just another human would therefore likely be
a mistake. The differences might be so large that it will be a misnomer to
call such systems “human-level.”

**AI-generated image of a horse** 9

![Image](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FddjoyqaAAAS1yO?format=png&name=small)

##### Transformative artificial intelligence is defined by the impact this
technology would have on the world

In contrast, the concept of transformative AI is not based on a comparison
with human intelligence. This has the advantage of sidestepping the problems
that the comparisons with our own mind bring. But it has the disadvantage that
it is harder to imagine what such a system would look like and be capable of.
It requires more from us. It requires us to imagine a world with intelligent
actors that are potentially very different from ourselves.

Transformative AI is not defined by any specific capabilities, but by the
real-world impact that the AI would have. To qualify as transformative,
researchers think of it as AI that is “powerful enough to bring us into a new,
qualitatively different future.”10

In humanity’s history, there have been two cases of such major
transformations, the agricultural and the industrial revolutions.

Transformative AI becoming a reality would be an event on that scale. Like the
arrival of agriculture 10,000 years ago, or the transition from hand- to
machine-manufacturing, it would be an event that would change the world for
billions of people around the globe and for the entire trajectory of
[humanity’s future](https://ourworldindata.org/longtermism).

Technologies that fundamentally change how a wide range of goods or services
are produced are called ‘general-purpose technologies’. The two previous
transformative events were caused by the discovery of two particularly
significant general-purpose technologies: the change in food production as
humanity transitioned from hunting and gathering to farming, and the rise of
machine manufacturing in the industrial revolution. Based on the evidence and
arguments presented in [this series](https://ourworldindata.org/artificial-
intelligence#research-writing) on AI development, I believe it is plausible
that powerful AI could represent the introduction of a similarly significant
general-purpose technology.

**Timeline of the three transformative events in world history**

![Timeline of transformative
events](https://ourworldindata.org/uploads/2022/12/Timeline-of-Transformative-
Events.png)